Add DDEV maintainer job description, fixes ddev/ddev#4867 (#53)
ddev/ddev.com-front-end: src/content/blog/maintainer-job-description.md

---
title: "Recruiting DDEV Open Source Project Maintainers"
pubDate: 2023-05-19
summary: The DDEV community is seeking paid maintainers to boost the project's sustainability and growth.
author: Randy Fay
featureImage:

>     src: /public/img/blog/2023/05/diverse_group_of_people_sitting_at_a_table_working.png

Reviewer: Fix path:

```suggestion
    src: /img/blog/2023/05/diverse_group_of_people_sitting_at_a_table_working.png
```

(I’ve also been using `-` as word separators for all Markdown and web-friendly URLs, but that’s a stylistic thing not called out anywhere.)

Author: Happy to do that, but why did it work? I thought I was just copying existing strategies in other articles.

Reviewer: No idea! It didn’t work locally for me, which is the only reason I noticed.

    alt: Image of a diverse group of maintainers sitting at a table maintaining DDEV
categories:

>   - Announcements

Reviewer: It seems a little strange to me that this is an announcement with a title you’d expect for an announcement, but it doesn’t actually announce anything and leaps straight into a job description—not in a careers section but in the blog.

Author: Suggestions on how to categorize it? I initially started with something random, and that failed right away, didn't see first off how to add new category.

Reviewer: I [hardcoded categories into the content definition](https://github.com/ddev/ddev.com-front-end/blob/main/src/content/config.ts#L5) with the intention of keeping them consistent, which may be too extreme.

But I wouldn’t recategorize it, I’d write the post as an announcement by giving it a proper introduction.

If it’s worth making a category for job listings, and those listings won’t stay up perpetually (like blog posts presumably should), it’d make more sense to make a separate hiring or careers page instead. Then use the blog to _promote_ new positions if/when necessary instead of being their canonical home.

---

> **Job Title:** DDEV Open Source Project Maintainer

Reviewer: Use headings:

```suggestion
## DDEV Open Source Project Maintainer
```

> **Job Description:**

Reviewer: Continue using headings:

```suggestion
### Job Description
```

> The DDEV community is seeking dedicated and experienced individuals to become a maintainers of the [DDEV open source project](https://ddev.com). This role requires a deep understanding of the DDEV project, excellent coding skills, and the ability to work collaboratively with a diverse and passionate community.

Reviewer: This seems sort of like the announcement snuck into the job description, which is missing a description of the role and only says the person needs to understand DDEV, code well, and work collaboratively. Seems like this description should elaborate on or reinforce the job title.

> **Responsibilities:**

Reviewer: Continue using headings:

```suggestion
### Responsibilities
```

> 1. **Code Review:** Review and merge code submissions, ensuring they are of high quality, adhere to the project's coding standards, and align with the project's direction.

Reviewer: Can prune a word:

```suggestion
1. **Code Review:** Review and merge code submissions, ensuring they are high quality, adhere to the project's coding standards, and align with the project's direction.
```

> 2. **Issue Management:** Respond to issues raised by users or other contributors. This includes troubleshooting, bug fixing, and feature development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Issue Management:** Respond to issues raised by users and other contributors. This includes troubleshooting, bug fixing, and feature development.
```

> 3. **Documentation:** Maintain and improve the project's documentation to ensure it is comprehensive, up-to-date, and user-friendly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Documentation:** Maintain and improve the project's documentation to be comprehensive, up-to-date, and user-friendly.
```

5. **Community Engagement:** Foster a positive and inclusive community culture by answering questions, providing support, and engaging with the community.

6. **Project Vision and Strategy:** Set the direction for the project, including deciding on the project's roadmap, setting priorities, and making decisions about the project's architecture and technologies.

7. **Quality Assurance:** Maintain a high level of quality for the project by setting up and maintaining testing frameworks, performing code audits, and ensuring adherence to best practices.

8. **Integration:** Ensure the project integrates well with other software and systems, working with other open source projects or commercial software as needed.

9. **Security:** Keep the project secure by reviewing and addressing potential security issues, updating dependencies, and following security best practices.

10. **Licensing and Legal Compliance:** Ensure the project complies with relevant licenses and legal requirements.

11. **Mentoring:** Use successful mentoring and communication skills to guide all participants in the project, fostering a culture of learning and growth.

> **Qualifications:**

Reviewer: Keep going with headings:

```suggestion
### Qualifications
```

- Proven experience with open source project maintenance or similar roles.
- Strong knowledge of the DDEV project and its technology stack.
- Excellent coding skills in Go, with a strong understanding of Linux, Docker, database technologies, and shell scripting.
- Understanding of software development best practices.
- Strong problem-solving skills and the ability to handle complex technical challenges.
- Excellent communication and mentoring skills, with the ability to work well with a diverse community and foster a culture of learning and growth.
- Strong understanding of software security practices.
- Experience with release management and continuous integration tools.
- Experience in mentoring and guiding new contributors in a open source community.
- Familiarity with the open source ecosystem and the dynamics of open source projects.

This individual should be passionate about the benefits of open source, and committed to fostering a community that encourages both user and developer participation.

> **Compensation:**

Reviewer: Headings again:

```suggestion
### Compensation
```

While maintainers may work on the project on a volunteer basis, the community has made clear its intent to create paid positions for the right candidates and to raise the requisite funding for these positions. Compensation will be commensurate with experience and the level of commitment.

> **About DDEV:**

Reviewer: Headings:

```suggestion
### About DDEV
```

Also, is this section necessary and does it need to include a link to the homepage from the site we’re on? It reads like a press release but betrays the current blog context and maybe the reader’s intelligence. I would wager that zero candidates would possess a deep knowledge of DDEV without having visited ddev.com before or realizing they in fact on that site.

This is also probably one of those times that linking is worth more than re-explaining if the section needs to be here at all.

Author: Certainly reasonable. Left it in there as it could end up being read in hard copy or some other context.

---

> title: "We're Recruiting DDEV Open Source Project Maintainers"

Reviewer: Could say it more simply and use the right quote. (Smartypants isn’t applied to titles or meta details.)

```suggestion
title: "We’re Recruiting Project Maintainers"
```

We’re on ddev.com with the DDEV name immediately above this, with `ddev` in the URL. And it’s an open source project so that part’s probably redundant as well.

pubDate: 2023-05-21

> summary: The DDEV community is seeking paid maintainers to boost the project's sustainability and growth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: The DDEV community is seeking paid maintainers to boost the project’s sustainability and growth.
```

author: Randy Fay
featureImage:
    src: /img/blog/2023/05/diverse_group_of_people_sitting_at_a_table_working.png
    alt: Image of a diverse group of maintainers sitting at a table maintaining DDEV
categories:
  - Announcements
---

We're recruiting DDEV Open Source Project Maintainers, both paid and volunteer positions! If you've ever considered becoming a more-involved contributor/maintainer on the project you love, we'd love to talk with you. DDEV needs to become more sustainable, with a larger group of maintainers, and we want to grow into that.

> ### Maintainer Job Description

Reviewer: This should either be level 2, or all `h3`’s should be `h2`’s. (No page should skip from 1 → 3.)

```suggestion
## Maintainer Job Description
```

- Understanding and commitment to software development best practices.
- Strong problem-solving skills and the ability to handle complex technical challenges.
- Excellent communication and mentoring skills, with the ability to work well with a diverse community and foster a culture of learning and growth.
- Strong understanding of software security practices.
- Experience with release management and continuous integration tools.
- Experience in mentoring and guiding new contributors in a open source community.
- Familiarity with the open source ecosystem and the dynamics of open source projects.

This individual should be passionate about the benefits of open source, and committed to fostering a community that encourages both user and developer participation.

### Compensation

While maintainers may work on the project on a volunteer basis, the community has made clear its intent to create paid positions for the right candidates and to raise the requisite funding for these positions. Compensation will be commensurate with experience and the level of commitment.

### How to Apply

> You don't actually "apply", you grow into these positions. But if becoming a maintainer is interesting to you, let's talk about it and make a plan! We'll mentor you, give you responsibilities commensurate with your capabililties, and help you grow into the role. If you're a PHP developer, you can learn go enough to make significant contributions in a modest amount of time. But perhaps most of the DDEV project is a variety of miscellaneous technologies that you may already have experience with. And understanding the web developer is a fundamental part of DDEV, so if you're a web developer you're already part of the way there. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You don't actually "apply," you grow into these positions. But if becoming a maintainer is interesting to you, let's talk about it and make a plan! We'll mentor you, give you responsibilities commensurate with your capabililties, and help you grow into the role. If you're a PHP developer, you can learn go enough to make significant contributions in a modest amount of time. But perhaps most of the DDEV project is a variety of miscellaneous technologies that you may already have experience with. And understanding the web developer is a fundamental part of DDEV, so if you're a web developer you're already part of the way there. 
```
